**Application for the Software Engineer Position**

m.p.w.kivits@gmail.com | +31620434360 | linkedin.com/in/max-kivits |
github.com/maxkiv | 29 years old | Dutch

**Tue Jan 14 2025**

Dear MX3D Hiring team,

I am excited to apply for the Software Engineer position at MX3D. Ideally I want
to work in a robotics startup using the state-of-the-art technology to work
towards a clear mission statement to effect positive societal change. MX3D fits
this image extremely well, so you can imagine how thrilled I was when I found
out you currently have open positions! The work done at MX3D on robotics WAAM
allows innovative and complex new shapes in metal manufacturing and is not just
quicker, cheaper and less wasteful, but also just very cool! The promise of a
fast paced environment and collaboration with a team of experts only further
increases my excitement for this position.



I love working on problems that cross disciplines as demonstrated by my varied
academic, professional, and personal experiences. MX3D's vision of using robots
for large scale robotic WAAM produce similar challenges to the work I have done
during my masters thesis where I worked on controlling a heterogeneous fleet of
generic multirotor UAVs using Nonlinear Model Predictive Control to
cooperatively estimate the state of a target object using a Kalman filter and
steer the fleet into optimal target-sensing trajectories. Within 6 months I was
able to dive into and advance this state-of-the-art control theory, collaborate
with others to turn ideas into the movement of real physical systems and present
my findings to a varied audience. This experience in advanced control theory,
state estimation and path planning will be useful when developing the control
and path planning algorithms for MX3D.

In my professional career, I have developed modern C++17 firmware and hardware
for Cortex-M4 microcontrollers at Nefit Bosch, building minimally complex
solutions for sensor integration and communication stacks. I guaranteed
maintainability and reproducibility through automated unit & integration tests
on a CI/CD pipeline. At Teqram, I designed and maintained C++/Lua software for
an ABB IRB 7600 industrial robot arm, integrating structured light cameras and
magnetic grippers for automated metal part handling. These experiences have
given me a strong foundation in robotics, hardware-software integration and
modern software development techniques, which are critical to work on MX3Dâ€™s
slicing and print control problems.

My continuous desire to learn drives personal projects, such as exploring Async
Embedded Rust, using Nix for reproducible
tooling, and designing a custom split keyboard with a PCB and firmware
integration. These projects demonstrate my internal motivation to learn about
hardware-software integration
and modern development tools. I am genuinely excited about innovative technologies
and would love to share this excitement with the obviously like-minded people at
MX3D.

As I'm currently abroad, I'm looking for a position when I relocate back to
Enschede around March 2025. My timezone for January is NZDT (GMT+13), and AWST
(GMT+8) during February. I hope it is possible to conduct any interviews
digitally until I return to the Netherlands.

I sincerely hope you will consider me for this position, I would love to be part
of your amazing mission and believe I can contribute meaningfully!



Sincerely,

Max Kivits

