**Application for the Smart Industrial Robotic Systems Research Engineer Position**

m.p.w.kivits@gmail.com | +31620434360 | linkedin.com/in/max-kivits |
github.com/maxkiv | 29 years old | Dutch

**Mon Jan 13 2025**

Dear Gerdine Meijer,

I am excited to apply for the Smart Industrial Robotic Systems Research Engineer
position at Saxion's SMART research group. In order to obtain more practical
knowledge I have chosen to work in industry after my Masters 3 years ago.
Although I have gained valuable experience, I have sometimes missed the focus on
curiosity, novel research and societal impact that academia offers. When I
learned of Saxion's SMART lab and its mission to bridge the gap between
fundamental research and industry to help solve urgent societal challenges, I
realised this is exactly what I am looking for. Your focus on sustainability,
extensive test labs and interaction with students only increase my excitement to
be part of your amazing group.


I love working on problems that cross disciplines, as evidenced by my studies,
personal projects and varied professional experience. 
During my thesis I worked on
controlling a heterogeneous fleet of generic multirotor UAVs using Nonlinear
Model Predictive Control to cooperatively estimate the state of a target object
using a Kalman filter. Within 6 months I was able to dive into and advance this
state-of-the-art control theory, collaborate with others to turn ideas into the
movement of real physical systems and present my findings to a varied audience.
Estimating the target object state using a Kalman-type filter and calculating
optimal sensing trajectories present similar challenges to the vision and path
planning work required for industrial robotics.



I like to drop into new projects and collaborate with others to figure out how
everything connects. At Nefit Bosch, I collaborated with others to develop
firmware and hardware for various Cortex-M4 microcontrollers, interfacing with a
variety of sensors and communication stacks. This experience in
hardware-software integration and collaborative development will be useful in
the setting of your SMART lab. At Teqram, I developed and maintained C++/Lua
software for an ABB IRB 7600 industrial robot arm with a structured light camera
and magnetic gripper to automate metal part handling. This work yielded broad
experience across the robotics stack, which will be useful when working on the
integration challenges that any industrial robot is sure to pose.

My continuous desire to learn drives personal projects, such as exploring Async
Embedded Rust for sensor and actuator interfacing, using Nix for reproducible
tooling, and designing a custom split keyboard with a PCB and firmware
integration. These projects demonstrate my desire to learn about modern
development tools, embedded systems and hardware-software integration, which are
directly applicable to industrial robotics.


I'm interested in all 4 robotics research engineer vacancies at your lab. I
would gladly meet to further explain my motivation and discuss together which
position is best suited. This position specifically interests me because it
closely relates to previous robotic manipulator work I have done and would allow
me to continue my development as a robotics engineer while exploring more about
reinforcement learning.


As I'm currently abroad, I'm looking for a position when I relocate back to
Enschede around March 2025. My timezone for January is NZDT (GMT+13), and AWST
(GMT+8) during February. I hope it is possible to conduct any interviews
digitally until I return to the Netherlands!

I sincerely hope you will consider me for this position, I would love to be part
of your amazing mission and believe I can contribute meaningfully!



Sincerely,

Max Kivits

